1. Liking when head of state becomes centrist? (5)a. Indicators: 'Head of' and 'becomes centrist?' are our indicators — one tells us which letter to pay attention to, and the other tells us what to do with it.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'state'. We'll use its letters to form our answer, as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Liking', and our answer will be one of its synonyms.d. Answer: taste
2. Every prime cut from homebred cattle? (4)a. Indicators: 'Every prime cut from' is a deletion indicator - it tells us to cut certain letters from some neighbouring fodder.b. Our fodder is 'homebred'. We'll use these letters (or some of them) to construct our answer according to the instructions given by our indicator(s).c. The definition is 'cattle' - a word with a direct connection to our answer.d. Answer: herd
3. Buzzer-beater was thrown with second on stopwatch (4)a. Indicators: 'Thrown' and 'second on' are our indicators — one tells us to anagram some letters, and the other tells us to part of a neighbouring word.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'was' and 'stopwatch'. We'll use these letters (or some of them) to construct our answer as the indicators direct.c. Definition: The definition is 'Buzzer-beater' - but you'll need to get your head out of sports for this one.d. Answer: swat
4. Campers on alert... bears close to home (8)a. Indicators: 'Bears' is a hidden-word indicator — it tells us the answer is being carried by a neighbouring phrase (the phrase 'bears' our answer).b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'Campers on alert' — we’ll use these letters to reach our answer, as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'close to home' — and if something's 'close to home', you could say it's...?d. Answer: personal
5. Ballpark teams’ tie-breaker (8)a. Indicators: 'breaker' is our anagram indicator — it suggests we should break up and rearrange some neighbouring letters.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'teams’ tie' - we'll need to use these letters to construct our answer, as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Ballpark' - and our answer well be another word for this, more or less.d. Answer: estimate
6. Features of iPad amazed early Apple consumer (4)a. Indicators: 'Features of' is a hidden-word indicator. It tells us the answer is hiding inside the neighbouring words - the answer's letters are 'features of' a larger collection of letters.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'iPad amazed' — we'll need to use these letters (or some of them) as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: Our fodder is 'iPad amazed' — we'll need to use these letters (or some of them) as directed by the indicator(s).d. Answer: adam
7. Top Easter egg of dozen, I think (6)a. Indicator: 'Easter egg of' is our indicator — it suggests that something is hidden inside a neighbouring phrase, just like a hidden Easter egg!b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'dozen, I think' — we’ll need to use these letters as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Top' — we’re looking for a word that can represent the top.d. Answer: zenith
8. Lead actor finally gets past misaligned teeth (6)a. Indicators: 'Finally', 'gets past' and 'misaligned' are our indicators — one tells us to take the last letter of a word, another suggests anagramming, and a third indicates how we might switch the positions of two bits of fodder.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'actor' and 'teeth' — we’ll be using the letters of both, as directed by the indicators.c. Definition: The definition is 'Lead' — we're looking for another word for 'lead', a word with a large range of meanings!d. Answer: tether
9. "Goodbye!" you blurted out, after ladies undressed (5)a. Indicators: 'Blurted out', 'after', and 'undressed' are our indicators — one’s a homophone indicator, another suggests removing certain letters, and a third indicates how we might switch the positions of two bits of fodder.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'you' and 'ladies' — we'll need to use both, as directed by the indicators.c. Definition: The definition is 'Goodbye' — a classic farewell in five letters.d. Answer: Adieu
10. Deadly agent playing phone tag (8)a. Indicators: 'Playing' is an anagram indicator – it suggests that some neighbouring letters are being manipulated or played.b. Fodder: The fodder is 'phone tag' – we'll be using these letters as directed by our indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Deadly agent' – we're looking for something that can do serious harm.d. Answer: Pathogen
11. Hate a self-absorbed flirt (5)a. Indicators: 'Absorbed' is our hidden word indicator – it suggests that the answer is tucked inside some neighbouring words, absorbed within them.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'Hate a self' – we’ll need to use these letters as directed by our indicator.c. Definition: The definition is 'flirt' – we’re looking for a flirty synonym here (I mean, who isn't...?)d. Answer: tease
12. Song at night club leaves Lucy transfixed by mirrorball? (7)a. Indicators: 'leaves', 'transfixed by', and 'mirror' are our indicators – one tells us to delete something, another suggests we need to reverse some letters, and a third indicates that some letters will pierce (or go inside of) some others. That's a lot!b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'club', 'Lucy', and 'ball' – we'll need to replace one with a short substitute and use the letters of the rest, all as the indicators direct.c. Definition: The definition is 'Song at night' – we're looking for a type of song typically sung in the evening.d. Answer: lullaby
13. Dave stupidly accepted $0.01 for $0.02? (6)a. Indicators: 'Stupidly' and 'accepted' are our indicators — one tells us to jumble some letters, and the other tells us to insert something inside that jumble.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'Dave' and '$0.01'. We'll need to read '$0.01' in a natural way (not 'point zero one dollars'), and then convert that into its most likely substitutes. And we'll need to use Dave's letters - thanks Dave!c. Definition: The definition is '$0.02?' — what could that mean?d. Answer: advice
14. Server's mistake leads to food arriving unusually late today (5)a. Indicators: 'Leads to' is our indicator — it tells us to take the first letter from multiple neighbouring words (multiple because 'leads' is plural - we need more than one leading letter).b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'food arriving unusually late today'. We'll need to use (some of) these letters, as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Server's mistake'. Our answer will be a server's mistake, but we'll need to stop thinking about food to find this one.d. Answer: fault
15. Gravity department's brief introduction to Hawking (5)a. Indicators: 'Brief' and 'introduction to' are our indicators — one tells us to abbreviate something, and the other tells us to take the first letter of a following word. Note: abbreviation indicators aren't common, and aren't strictly necessary, but this one simultaneously aids the solve and the surface.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'department' and 'Hawking'. We'll need to use these words to find our answer, as directed by the indicator(s).c. Definition: The definition is 'Gravity' — but not the kind that keeps you on the ground.d. Answer: depth
16. Slim odds of solving that (6)a. Indicators: This clue's indicator is 'odds of', and it's a selection indicator, guiding us to look at only certain letters in a chunk of neighbouring fodder.b. Fodder: This clue's fodder is 'solving that'. We'll use these letters to construct our answer, as guided by our indicator(s).c. Definition: Our definition here is 'Slim', and our answer will be another word for that.d. Answer: slight
17. Seductive, romantic guy dumped after ‘mid’ sex (6)a. Indicators: This clue's indicators are 'dumped', 'after' and 'mid'. One instructs us to delete some fodder from some other fodder, another flags which letter/s to select from some fodder, and the third tells us how to position two chunks of fodder relative to each other.b. Fodder: This clue's fodder is 'romantic', 'guy' and 'sex'. We'll need to use a short synonym for one of these along with the letters of the others to construct our answer, as guided by the indicator(s).c. Definition: Our definition here is 'Seductive', and our answer will be another word for that.d. Answer: erotic
18. Lead guitarist fills all but the first bass section? (5)a. definition: The definition is 'bass section', and notice the question mark! It means something fishy is going on – this is definitely not the kind of bass section you'd find in a band.b. indicators: 'Lead' and 'all but the first' are our selection indicators. One tells us to take just the first letter of a word, the other indicates that we should drop the first letter and keep the remaining letters.c. Fodder: 'Guitarist' and 'fills' are our fodder – and this one is all letterplay. Use those letters (or some of them) as directed by the indicators.d. Answer: gills
19. Straight talking any boring fibber (6)a. Indicators: 'Talking' and 'boring' are our indicators – one nudges us toward a homophone, and the other tells us to insert some letters into another word.b. Fodder: 'Any' and 'fibber' are our fodder – we’ll need to use the letters of the first (in combination with our indicators), and swap in a synonym for the second.c. Definition: The definition is 'Straight' – a word with a lot of meanings! Our answer connects with one meaning of 'straight'.d. Answer: linear
20. One goes into debt flying private jet? (5)a. Indicators: 'Goes into' and 'flying' are our indicators — one tells us to insert something, and the other is an anagram indicator.b. Fodder: Our fodder is 'One' and 'debt'. We'll need to find a short synonym for 'One', and use that with the letters of debt, as our indicators direct.c. Definition: The definition is 'private jet?' — and with that question mark, we're getting a hint that we'll need to think outside the box on this one. What's a kind of jet that could be considered private?d. Answer: bidet